Before my speech.

Ask yourself, "what is the thing that I desire now?" It could be a scholarship. A car. A position.

Now, please write it down on this piece of paper. It could be more than one.

Now, let me start the speech.

-----

One day, around 5 years ago. On the way, in my family car. I told my parents: "I won't get married in the future".

"Whoa.." both were surprised. Luckily my dad's driving was still steady.

No.. no.. it's not about me confessing that I'm desiring man instead of woman.

It was about me confessing that I might follow the path of Buddha. For you who don't know, Buddha left his wife & infant child to find a way to end human's suffering. It's sad. I don't want to do that too.

Yeah, I was really into Buddhism at that time. One of my favorite ideas was this. (showing the picture)

"Desiring thing, from outside, is the key to unhappiness."

Desire nothing. Have no external expectation.

Living like the tree.

"Happiness is inside, not outside"

I used to like this idea, up until quite recently.

It started by me asking my self, "Wait.. wait.. isn't a mother's breast a thing outside of the baby?"

"Isn't a healthy meal, a thing outside of us?"

"Isn't a fresh air to breath, a thing outside of us?"

"Let's imagine, BOM! There were a terrorist bomb in Cipto main lobby. Your smile now will be gone right? Isn't a safety surrounding, a thing outside of us?"

"Aren't a loving spouse, friends, & families, a thing outside of us?"

There's no doubt. We need them to be happy.

So, happiness is outside. Not inside.

...if & only if...

(is there anyone want to guess it? what is the red line?)

the external thing you desire, helps you survive.

Survive!

TM Iyun, do you need a Division B 1st winner crown to survive?

What do we need to survive? Luckily, I have a lot MD to answer it. Food. Cloth. Shelter. etc. etc. You can answer 'money', but then you need to explain, why this piece of fancy paper itself, helps you survive. Everybody has their own answer.

For me, it's good air, water, food, shelter, healthcare, and the loving others. That's it. I don't need job & hobby. As I'm still alive without them.

Generally, majority will more or less agree with my list. But the devil is in the detail though. We might have different definition of what is a nutritious food is. So, I give each of you this paper, you can fill yourself.

So that, whenever you desire something, ask yourself, "Is this the right external thing I need to desire?", "or it's just a superficial stuff to increase my ego, so that my instagram'd be ".

You can start with the desire that you've wrote.
